# Synopsis

## System Synopsis <a id="system-synopsis"></a>

Peri Finance is a protocol for issuing and trading synthetic assets on Polygon. Each synthetic asset \(or Pynth\) is an ERC20 token which tracks the price of an external asset; for example each [pUSD](https://polygonscan.com/token/0xa590c980050d934c046920f8a9e0d9567536edce) token tracks the price of the US dollar \(and unlike the other synthetic assets, is fixed at `1`\). A wide variety of Pynths exists within Peri Finance, including cryptocurrencies, and inverse indexes. In principle the system can support any asset with a clear price, and provides on-chain exposure to an unlimited range of real-world assets.

Peri Finance is otherwise composed of a smart contract infrastructure and a set of incentives which maintains Pynth prices. It is underpinned by the value of the Peri finance Token \(PERI\). PERI acts as collateral; staking a proportional value of PERI is required to mint Pynths. Stakers are rewarded for supporting the system with a pro-rata share of the fees generated by activity in the system. The value of PERI is thus directly connected with the usage of the network it collateralizes.

This mechanism allows Peri Finance to support instantaneous, near-frictionless conversion between different flavours of Pynths without the liquidity and slippage issues experienced by other decentralized exchanges. The resulting network of tokens supports an extensive set of use cases including trading, loans, payments, remittance, eCommerce and many more.

A more descriptive overview of the system is available in the Peri Finance Litepaper,. There is also a community-run page full of helpful resources, and a snapshot of the current system status will live soon

